And actually,
this isn't just about the content you add
to your website if you wanna build trust.
It's also about your design as well,
your design can have a big impact on
whether your site is being trusted or not.
And I'm gonna talk about this a lot
more when we talk about design.
But basically, we can very easily
associate certain design as
being trustworthy and
other design as being untrustworthy.
And actually,
it's something you need to test for.
And you need to put your design
in front of people and go,
do you find this trustworthy?
So, yeah, that's a little bit
about how to build trust.
Now the fourth psychological pillar we're
gonna talk about, I know that a lot of
the people watching this would
class themselves as developers and
not designers or content people.
And I know I'm taking out of your comfort
zone and making you look up all kinds of
things that maybe you're not quite so
familiar with.
But this last one, you're gonna
love cuz it's all about speed,
it's all about performance.
Because actually, we are incredibly
impatient more so than ever before.
And so performance is one of the most
important things that we can
do to improve conversion.
And there's been loads of
research done into this, right?
For every 2 seconds of
load time on a website,
you're gonna see a 4.3% loss
in revenue per visitor.
You're gonna see a 3.8% reduction in
clicks and a 1.8% drop off in inquiries.
Performance makes an enormous difference.
So next time you're dealing with
a designer who wants a video
background, right?
Click them around the head and
tell them that performance matters
more than their stupid graphic, right?
What next time you've got a designer
that wants to use 20 different forms,
shut them down.
Stop them doing it cuz they're undermining
performance and people are so impatient.
And performance impacts
repeat visits as well,
79% of shoppers won't return to slow site.
It also affects whether they're willing
to recommend a product or service, right?
44% of shoppers will share if
they have a bad experience or
their sites really shut slow,
don't bother with it.
So we need to be improving performance
as much as we possibly can.
So how can we do that?
Well, I've kind of indicated
a few things in my rants, but
here's a few more to kind
of throw into the mix.
Imagery is a huge one, right?
Serving the right images
at the right time and
at the right size is critical to success.
So I would highly recommend that you
use a service like servesiv.com,
which basically just because the trouble
is we know what happens, right?
You let a client or a stakeholder at
the content management system and
they upload some enormous ass PNG or
TIFF, some ridiculous resolution.
And obviously, all of that needs to be
resized and they don't follow the rules.
So a service like Serve, basically,
they upload it at a massive size.
And then you can pull it back
at whatever dimensions you want.
And it basically, compresses and
serves the image on the fly.
It's really, really great.
So it's not the only one.
There are a number of them, and no,
I'm not getting paid commission by them,
unfortunately.
So something like that works really well
and also serving the right file format.
And again,
server will do this automatically.
So if you can serve a web p file or
whatever.
So speed up your imagery, make sure
you're serving at the right resolution.
There's also I think about
the perception of speed as well,
not just the reality of speed.
So don't just go and
run this through Google page speed test,
because that will give you the numbers,
but
won't necessarily give you
the feel of using a website.
So images get great example of this.
Lacy load images,
load up the rest of the page, and
then bring the images in afterwards.
Because it will give a perception that the
site is loading faster than actually is.
That's gone wrong,
yes, on my slide.
Sorry about that.
It should say use a content
delivery network, okay?
So, yeah, make sure that your
website has been served from
multiple locations around the world.
Hopefully, if you guys
got developer background,
this is something that
you're doing a standard.
I know sometimes, clients are reluctant to
pay for this color, kind of functionality,
stakeholders are reluctant to do it,
there may be complications in it.
But when you can tie it back to the impact
that it's having on conversion,
you'll find that they start to pay a lot
more attention to this kind of thing.
So, for example, you can actually
calculate the amount that it's costing
them not having a content
delivery network.
And then what you can do is effectively
work out how many additional
seconds it's taking to load because
there's no content delivery network.
Then from that, you know that you're
gonna get a 4.8% reduction in revenue.
And then work out what your revenue is and
you can get a guesstimate how
much it's costing the business.
You'll be amazed how quickly
people then turn around and
say they're willing to spend a bit of
money on tech when they realize that it's
actually undermining
their conversion rate.
And then obviously, we need to do things
like optimize our CSS and JavaScript.
And increasingly, we're building our
websites on top of frameworks and
systems like React and stuff like that,
and, yeah, these are incredibly powerful.
Yeah, they have their place.
Yeah, they make your life easier maybe but
often,
they are a sledgehammer to crack a nut,
as a phrase we have over here.
In other words, they're overkill.
And for a lot of websites, you shouldn't
be using these kinds of frameworks because
the amount of JavaScript that's
required is actually fairly minimal.
And we should be minimizing our code,
minimizing our use of JavaScript,
minimizing our use of framework,
because it will have
performance benefits doing so.
And this applies to all kinds of
JavaScript that we use on our websites,
aren't strictly necessary
in order to deliver.
Not only is JavaScript additional
downloads have to be made,
additional calls to the server
that have to be made.
They also have the problem of they
can cause performance issues on
slower browsers, cause browsers to crash.
We overly use JavaScript in
my humble opinion these days.
You can write the hate in the comments,
I'm sure it will come.
And then there's finally
watch those web fonts.
Remember I was talking about for
designers.
Designers love to include
lots of different fonts, and
those fonts are a killer.
Fonts can be huge, so bully your
designers, or if you do design yourself,
really show restraint over this.
Because it will have a big impact on
your conversion rate if you start
downloading these big fonts.
Also when you do low fonts, make sure
designers won't like that flash you
get where you delay the loading of the web
font until the whole pages appeared so
you'll get it in a default
font to begin with.
But actually, you should be doing that
wherever possible because it means that
the page loads quicker.
Users feel more of a perception of speed.
So get a default font in there then
bring your web fonts in afterwards.
Use variable fonts where you
can as well because obviously,
that they're much smaller font sizes.
Now the one I throw in a dodge just
sort of off the top of my head.
Get rid of those social media icons.
The marketing team always likes
to use these social media icons.
These social media icons are a bugger for
performance.
They really do undermine
the performance of your website and
cause all kinds of problems.
Hardly anybody uses them.
If you look at your analytics,
nobody will be using them anyway.
And he's ruining your conversion rate so
really that's a good argument to go back
to your marketing people, is to say, look,
this is undermining conversion and
so we need to avoid this.